EDN is an extensible data notation. A superset of EDN is used by
Clojure to represent programs, and it is used by Datomic and other
applications as a data transfer format.

There is no enclosing element at the top level.

Elements are generally separated by whitespace. Whitespace, other than
within strings, is not otherwise significant, nor need redundant
whitespace be preserved during transmissions. Commas `,` are also
considered whitespace, other than within strings.

The delimiters `{ } ( ) [ ]` need not be separated from adjacent
elements by whitespace.

Tokens beginning with # are reserved. The character following #
determines the behavior. The dispatches #{ (sets), #_ (discard),
#alphabetic-char (tag) are defined below. # is not a delimiter.

`nil` represents nil, null or nothing. It should be read as an object
with similar meaning on the target platform.

`true` and `false` should be mapped to booleans.

Strings are enclosed in `"double quotes"`. May span multiple
lines. Standard C/Java escape characters `\t, \r, \n, \\ and \"` are
supported.

Characters are preceded by a backslash: `\c`, `\newline`, `\return`,
`\space` and `\tab` yield the corresponding characters. Unicode
characters are represented with \uNNNN as in Java. Backslash cannot be
followed by whitespace.

If a ; character is encountered outside of a string, that character
and all subsequent characters to the next newline should be ignored.

Symbols begin with a non-numeric character and can contain
alphanumeric characters and `. * + ! - _ ?  $ % & = < >`. If `-`, `+`
or `.` are the first character, the second character (if any) must be
non-numeric. Additionally, `: #` are allowed as constituent characters
in symbols other than as the first character.

`/` has special meaning in symbols. It can be used once only in the
middle of a symbol to separate the _prefix_ (often a namespace) from
the _name_, e.g. `my-namespace/foo`. `/` by itself is a legal symbol,
but otherwise neither the _prefix_ nor the _name_ part can be empty
when the symbol contains `/`.

If a symbol has a _prefix_ and `/`, the following _name_ component
should follow the first-character restrictions for symbols as a whole.

Keywords are identifiers that typically designate themselves. They are
semantically akin to enumeration values. Keywords follow the rules of
symbols, except they can (and must) begin with `:`, e.g. `:fred` or
`:my/fred`. If the target platform does not have a keyword type
distinct from a symbol type, the same type can be used without
conflict, since the mandatory leading `:` of keywords is disallowed
for symbols. Per the symbol rules above, :/ and :/anything are not
legal keywords.  A keyword cannot begin with ::

Integers consist of the digits `0` - `9`, optionally prefixed by `-`
to indicate a negative number, or (redundantly) by `+`. No integer
other than 0 may begin with 0. 64-bit (signed integer) precision is
expected. An integer can have the suffix `N` to indicate that
arbitrary precision is desired. -0 is a valid integer not distinct
from 0.

For floating point numbers 64-bit (double) precision is expected. In
addition, a floating-point number may have the suffix `M` to indicate
that exact precision is desired.

A list is a sequence of values. Lists are represented by zero or more
elements enclosed in parentheses `()`. Note that lists can be
heterogeneous. This is an example list: `(a b 42)`
     
A vector is a sequence of values that supports random access. Vectors
are represented by zero or more elements enclosed in square brackets
`[]`. Note that vectors can be heterogeneous. This an example vector:
`[a b 42]`

A map is a collection of associations between keys and values. Maps
are represented by zero or more key and value pairs enclosed in curly
braces `{}`. Each key should appear at most once. No semantics should
be associated with the order in which the pairs appear. This is an
example map: `{:a 1, "foo" :bar, [1 2 3] four}`

Note that keys and values can be elements of any type. The use of
commas above is optional, as they are parsed as whitespace.

A set is a collection of unique values. Sets are represented by zero
or more elements enclosed in curly braces preceded by `#` `#{}`. No
semantics should be associated with the order in which the elements
appear. Note that sets can be heterogeneous. This is an example set:
`#{a b [1 2 3]}`.

# followed immediately by a symbol starting with an alphabetic
character indicates that that symbol is a tag.

built-in tagged elements:

Example: `#inst "1985-04-12T23:20:50.52Z"`. An instant in time. The
tagged element is a string in RFC-3339 format.

Example: `#uuid "f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6"`. A UUID. The
tagged element is a canonical UUID string representation.
