# D3FEND

## :d3fend/D3FENDThing
The `:d3fend/D3FENDThing` class in the D3FEND ontology represents
concepts defined in the core D3FEND Framework. It is a subclass of
itself, `:d3fend/D3FENDThing`.

However, there are no direct properties (slots) associated with
`:d3fend/D3FENDThing`. This suggests that this class serves as a
high-level or root class in the D3FEND ontology, and specific
properties would be associated with its subclasses.

In a real-world scenario, you would use this class as a starting point
for defining more specific classes in the D3FEND ontology. For
example, you might define subclasses of `:d3fend/D3FENDThing` to
represent specific types of cybersecurity concepts, such as attacks,
defenses, or vulnerabilities. Each of these subclasses could then have
its own properties to describe the specific attributes of those
concepts.

When storing this data in Datomic with RDF, you would typically map
these D3FEND classes to Datomic entities. Each D3FEND class would
become a Datomic entity with the `:db/ident` attribute set to the IRI
of the class. The properties of the class would become attributes of
the Datomic entity. This way, you can leverage the power of Datomic
for querying and managing your cybersecurity data, while still using
the structure and semantics of the D3FEND ontology.

## :d3fend/ATTACKThing

The `:d3fend/ATTACKThing` class in the D3FEND ontology represents
concepts defined in the ATT&CK Framework.

## :d3fend/ATTACKMitigation

The `:d3fend/ATTACKMitigation` class in the D3FEND ontology represents
mitigations that can be applied to counteract or prevent cyber
attacks. It is a subclass of `:d3fend/ATTACKThing` and
`:d3fend/ATTACKMitigation`.

Here are the properties (slots) associated with `:d3fend/ATTACKMitigation`:

1. `:d3fend/d3fend-comment`: This property allows for the addition of
   a public note about the entity from the D3FEND team. It is a
   datatype property, meaning its values are data values (as opposed
   to object values, which are other entities).

2. `:d3fend/semantic-relation`: This property represents a semantic
   relationship between entities. It is an object property, meaning
   its values are other entities.

In a real-world scenario, you would use these properties to describe
your mitigations. For example, you could use the
`:d3fend/d3fend-comment` property to add notes about the mitigation,
or the `:d3fend/semantic-relation` property to link the mitigation to
related concepts, such as the attacks it mitigates or the defensive
techniques it involves.

The `:d3fend/ATTACKMitigation` class in the D3FEND ontology has
several descendants, each representing a specific mitigation strategy
defined in the ATT&CK Framework. 

Each of these descendants represents a specific mitigation strategy
that can be applied to counteract or prevent cyber attacks. The
specific details of each mitigation strategy would be defined by the
properties of the corresponding class.

### Vulnerability Scanning

The `:d3fend/M1016` - Vulnerability Scanning mitigation in the D3FEND
ontology represents the concept of scanning and inventorying domains
for vulnerabilities. The comment associated with this mitigation
indicates that future D3FEND releases will model the scanning and
inventory domains.

In a real-world scenario, you would use this mitigation to identify
potential vulnerabilities in your linked data platform. This could
involve using vulnerability scanning tools to identify potential
security issues, such as outdated software, misconfigurations, or
known vulnerabilities. Once identified, these vulnerabilities can be
addressed to improve the security of the platform.

For example, if you have a mitigation with the ident `:mit1`, you could add the following facts:

```
[[:db/add :mit1 :d3fend/d3fend-comment "This mitigation involves scanning and inventorying domains for vulnerabilities"]]
```

This fact states that the mitigation `:mit1` involves scanning and
inventorying domains for vulnerabilities.

### User Training

The `:d3fend/M1017` - User Training mitigation in the D3FEND ontology
represents the concept of training users to improve security. The
comment associated with this mitigation indicates that modeling user
training is outside the scope of D3FEND.

In a real-world scenario, you would use this mitigation to improve the
security of your linked data platform. This could involve providing
training to users on secure practices, such as recognizing phishing
attempts, using strong passwords, and following proper procedures for
handling sensitive data. Although the specific details of user
training are not modeled in D3FEND, it's a well-recognized aspect of
cybersecurity and can significantly reduce the risk of user-related
security incidents.

### User Account Management

The `:d3fend/M1018` - User Account Management mitigation in the D3FEND
ontology represents the concept of managing user accounts to improve
security. This mitigation is associated with defensive techniques such
as Local File Permissions, Mandatory Access Control, and System
Configuration Permissions.

In a real-world scenario, you would use this mitigation to improve the
security of your linked data platform. This could involve setting up
user accounts and permissions to control access to data and
functions. For example, you could set up different user roles with
different permissions, and assign these roles to users based on their
responsibilities. You could also implement mandatory access control to
enforce the principle of least privilege, ensuring that users only
have the permissions they need to perform their tasks. Additionally,
you could manage system configuration permissions to prevent
unauthorized changes to system settings.

Although the specific details of user account management can vary
depending on the specific requirements of your platform, these general
principles can help to reduce the risk of unauthorized access and
misuse of data.

### Threat Intelligence Program

The `:d3fend/M1019` - Threat Intelligence Program mitigation in the
D3FEND ontology represents the concept of establishing and running a
threat intelligence program to improve security. The comment
associated with this mitigation indicates that establishing and
running a threat intelligence program is outside the scope of D3FEND.

In a real-world scenario, you would use this mitigation to improve the
security of your linked data platform. This could involve setting up a
threat intelligence program to gather, analyze, and apply knowledge
about security threats. A threat intelligence program could help you
to understand the security landscape, identify potential threats
before they impact your platform, and respond more effectively to
security incidents.

Although the specific details of a threat intelligence program are not
modeled in D3FEND, it's a well-recognized aspect of cybersecurity and
can significantly enhance your ability to protect your platform
against security threats.

### SSL/TLS Inspection

The `:d3fend/M1020` - SSL/TLS Inspection mitigation in the D3FEND
ontology represents the concept of inspecting SSL/TLS network traffic
to detect and prevent security threats. The comment associated with
this mitigation indicates that D3FEND models this as an infrastructure
dependency to support Network Traffic Analysis.

In a real-world scenario, you would use this mitigation to improve the
security of your linked data platform. This could involve setting up
SSL/TLS inspection to analyze encrypted network traffic for signs of
malicious activity. SSL/TLS inspection can help to detect threats that
would otherwise be hidden in encrypted traffic, such as malware or
data exfiltration attempts.

Although the specific details of SSL/TLS inspection can vary depending
on the specific requirements of your platform and the capabilities of
your network security tools, this general principle can help to
enhance your ability to detect and respond to security threats.

### Restrict Web-Based Content

The `:d3fend/M1021` - Restrict Web-Based Content mitigation in the
D3FEND ontology is associated with a variety of defensive
techniques. These techniques include:

1. `:d3fend/DNSDenylisting`: This technique involves blocking network
   traffic associated with known malicious DNS domains.
2. `:d3fend/DNSAllowlisting`: This technique involves allowing network traffic only from known good DNS domains.
3. `:d3fend/URLAnalysis`: This technique involves analyzing URLs to detect malicious web content.
4. `:d3fend/NetworkTrafficAnalysis`: This technique involves analyzing
   network traffic to detect malicious activity.
5. `:d3fend/InboundTrafficFiltering`: This technique involves
   filtering inbound network traffic to block potential threats.
6. `:d3fend/FileAnalysis`: This technique involves analyzing files to detect malicious content.
7. `:d3fend/OutboundTrafficFiltering`: This technique involves
   filtering outbound network traffic to prevent data exfiltration and
   command-and-control communication.

The comment associated with this mitigation indicates that its scope
is broad, touching on a wide variety of techniques in D3FEND. This
suggests that implementing this mitigation could involve a combination
of the associated defensive techniques, depending on the specific
requirements and threat landscape of the linked data platform.

Here is the comprehensive technical documentation for the mitigation
techniques we have datafied:

1. **:d3fend/DNSDenylisting**: This technique involves blocking DNS
   resolution for known malicious domains and their subdomains. It is
   associated with the digital artifact
   :d3fend/OutboundInternetDNSLookupTraffic. It counters and isolates
   this artifact. The technique is implemented by a procedure and
   enables the defensive tactic of isolation. The technique is also
   known as "DNS Blacklisting".

2. **:d3fend/DNSAllowlisting**: This technique involves permitting
   only approved domains and their subdomains to be resolved. It is
   associated with the digital artifact
   :d3fend/OutboundInternetDNSLookupTraffic. It counters, isolates,
   and blocks this artifact. The technique is implemented by a
   procedure and enables the defensive tactic of isolation. The
   technique is also known as "DNS Whitelisting".

3. **:d3fend/URLAnalysis**: This technique involves determining if a
   URL is benign or malicious by analyzing the URL or its
   components. It is associated with the digital artifact
   :d3fend/URL. It counters and analyzes this artifact. The technique
   is implemented by a procedure and enables the defensive tactics of
   detection and defense. 

In general, to use these techniques in the real world using Datomic to
store everything with RDF, you would need to create entities in
Datomic for each technique, digital artifact, and defensive
tactic. You would also need to store the relationships between these
entities. This would allow you to query the data to understand the
relationships between different techniques, artifacts, and tactics,
and to identify the appropriate techniques to use in different
situations.

### Restrict File and Directory Permissions

The `:d3fend/M1022` - Restrict File and Directory Permissions
mitigation in the D3FEND ontology represents the concept of
restricting access to files and directories to improve security. This
mitigation is associated with the defensive technique
`:d3fend/LocalFilePermissions`.

In a real-world scenario, you would use this mitigation to improve the
security of your linked data platform. This could involve setting up
file and directory permissions to control who can access and modify
data. For example, you could set up different user roles with
different permissions, and assign these roles to users based on their
responsibilities. You could also implement mandatory access control to
enforce the principle of least privilege, ensuring that users only
have the permissions they need to perform their tasks. Additionally,
you could manage system configuration permissions to prevent
unauthorized changes to system settings.

Although the specific details of file and directory permissions can
vary depending on the specific requirements of your platform, these
general principles can help to reduce the risk of unauthorized access
and misuse of data.

### Restrict Registry Permission

The `:d3fend/M1024` - Restrict Registry Permission mitigation in the
D3FEND ontology represents the concept of restricting permissions to
the system registry to improve security. This mitigation is associated
with the defensive technique `:d3fend/SystemConfigurationPermissions`.

In a real-world scenario, you would use this mitigation to improve the
security of your linked data platform. This could involve setting up
registry permissions to control who can access and modify registry
entries. For example, you could set up different user roles with
different permissions, and assign these roles to users based on their
responsibilities. You could also implement mandatory access control to
enforce the principle of least privilege, ensuring that users only
have the permissions they need to perform their tasks. Additionally,
you could manage system configuration permissions to prevent
unauthorized changes to system settings.

Although the specific details of registry permissions can vary
depending on the specific requirements of your platform, these general
principles can help to reduce the risk of unauthorized access and
misuse of data.

### Privileged Process Integrity

The metaobject `:d3fend/M1025` represents a mitigation technique in
the D3FEND framework, specifically "Privileged Process
Integrity". This mitigation technique is associated with several
defensive techniques:

1. `:d3fend/ProcessSegmentExecutionPrevention`: This technique
   involves preventing the execution of certain segments of a
   process. This can be useful in preventing malicious code from
   executing if it has been injected into a running process.

2. `:d3fend/DriverLoadIntegrityChecking`: This technique involves
   checking the integrity of drivers when they are loaded. This can
   prevent malicious drivers from being loaded and potentially
   compromising the system.

3. `:d3fend/BootloaderAuthentication`: This technique involves
   authenticating the bootloader when the system starts up. This can
   prevent an attacker from modifying the bootloader to launch attacks
   at boot time.

4. `:d3fend/MandatoryAccessControl`: This technique involves enforcing
   mandatory access controls on system resources. This can prevent an
   attacker from accessing sensitive resources if they manage to
   compromise a process.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic,
these techniques can be applied as follows:

- `:d3fend/ProcessSegmentExecutionPrevention`: Ensure that the Datomic
  processes are running in a secure environment where the execution of
  unauthorized code segments is prevented. This could involve running
  Datomic in a hardened container or virtual machine.

- `:d3fend/DriverLoadIntegrityChecking`: If Datomic is running on a
  system where drivers are used, ensure that the integrity of these
  drivers is checked when they are loaded. This could involve using a
  secure operating system that performs these checks.

- `:d3fend/BootloaderAuthentication`: If Datomic is running on a
  physical server, ensure that the bootloader is authenticated at
  startup. This could involve using a secure boot process that checks
  the integrity of the bootloader.

- `:d3fend/MandatoryAccessControl`: Enforce mandatory access controls
  on the Datomic database and any other sensitive resources. This
  could involve configuring Datomic's access controls to strictly
  limit who can access the data and what they can do with it.

### Password Policies

The metaobject `:d3fend/M1027` represents a mitigation technique in
the D3FEND framework, specifically "Password Policies". This
mitigation technique is associated with several defensive techniques:

1. `:d3fend/One-timePassword`: This technique involves the use of a
   password that is valid for only one login session or
   transaction. It can help to prevent replay attacks, in which an
   attacker intercepts a password and tries to reuse it later.

2. `:d3fend/StrongPasswordPolicy`: This technique involves
   implementing a policy that requires the use of strong
   passwords. Strong passwords are typically longer, include a mix of
   different types of characters, and are not easily guessable.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic,
these techniques can be applied as follows:

- `:d3fend/One-timePassword`: Implement a system that generates
  one-time passwords for users when they log in. This could involve
  sending a one-time password to the user's registered email address
  or mobile number, or generating a one-time password using a hardware
  or software token. In Datomic, you could store information about the
  one-time passwords that have been generated and used, to ensure that
  they are not reused.

- `:d3fend/StrongPasswordPolicy`: Implement a policy that requires
  users to create strong passwords. This could involve checking
  passwords against certain criteria when they are created, and
  rejecting passwords that do not meet these criteria. In Datomic, you
  could store information about the password policy, and use this
  information to check passwords when they are created.

### Operating System Configuration

The `:d3fend/M1028` - Operating System Configuration mitigation in the
D3FEND ontology represents the concept of configuring the operating
system to improve security. This mitigation is associated with the
defensive technique `:d3fend/PlatformHardening`.

The `:d3fend/PlatformHardening` technique involves hardening
components of a platform with the intention of making them more
difficult to exploit. Platforms include components such as BIOS UEFI
Subsystems, hardware security devices such as Trusted Platform
Modules, boot process logic or code, and kernel software
components. This technique enables the defensive tactic of hardening.

In a real-world scenario, you would use this mitigation to improve the
security of your linked data platform. This could involve configuring
the operating system on which the platform runs to reduce potential
attack surfaces, enable security features, and disable unnecessary
services. For example, you could enable automatic updates to ensure
that the operating system is always up-to-date with the latest
security patches, configure the firewall to block unnecessary inbound
and outbound traffic, and disable services that are not needed for the
operation of the platform.

### Remote Data Storage

The `:d3fend/M1029` - Remote Data Storage mitigation in the D3FEND
ontology represents the concept of storing data remotely as a part of
IT disaster recovery plans. The comment associated with this
mitigation indicates that IT disaster recovery plans are outside the
current scope of D3FEND.

In a real-world scenario, you would use this mitigation to improve the
security of your linked data platform. This could involve setting up
remote data storage to ensure that data is backed up in a separate
location. This can help to protect against data loss in the event of a
disaster, such as a hardware failure, a natural disaster, or a cyber
attack that results in data being deleted or corrupted.

Although the specific details of remote data storage can vary
depending on the specific requirements of your platform, these general
principles can help to enhance the resilience of your platform and
ensure the availability of your data.

### Inbound Traffic Filtering

Inbound Traffic Filtering is a mitigation technique in the D3FEND
framework. This technique restricts network traffic originating from
untrusted networks destined towards a private host or enclave. It is
associated with :d3fend/InboundNetworkTraffic, which represents
network traffic from a host outside a given network initiated on an
incoming connection to a host inside that network.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic,
Inbound Traffic Filtering can be applied as follows:

- **Network Level:** Configure network firewalls to restrict inbound
  traffic to only trusted sources. This can be done by setting up
  firewall rules that only allow traffic from known IP addresses or
  ranges. This can prevent potential attackers from sending malicious
  traffic to your Datomic servers.

- **Application Level:** Within the Datomic application, you can
  implement application-level filtering. This could involve setting up
  rules that restrict the types of requests that can be made to your
  Datomic database. For example, you could restrict access to certain
  endpoints or limit the types of operations that can be performed.

- **Monitoring:** Regularly monitor your network traffic to identify
  any unusual patterns or potential threats. This could involve using
  network monitoring tools or setting up alerts for when certain
  thresholds are exceeded.

### :d3fend/InboundSessionVolumeAnalysis

Inbound Session Volume Analysis is another mitigation technique in the D3FEND framework. This technique involves analyzing inbound network session or connection attempt volume. It is associated with :d3fend/InboundInternetNetworkTraffic, which represents network traffic from a host outside a given network initiated on an incoming connection to a host inside that network.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic, Inbound Session Volume Analysis can be applied as follows:

- **Rate Limiting:** Implement rate limiting on your Datomic servers to prevent excessive connection attempts. This can help mitigate potential DoS attacks by limiting the number of sessions a single source can initiate over a certain period.

- **Monitoring:** Regularly monitor the volume of inbound sessions to your Datomic servers. If you notice a sudden increase in connection attempts, it could be an indication of a potential attack.

- **Alerting:** Set up alerts to notify you when the volume of inbound sessions exceeds a certain threshold. This can help you respond quickly to potential threats.

### :d3fend/BroadcastDomainIsolation

Broadcast Domain Isolation is a mitigation technique in the D3FEND
framework. This technique restricts the number of computers a host can
contact on their LAN. It is associated with
:d3fend/LocalAreaNetworkTraffic, which represents network traffic that
does not cross a given network's boundaries; where that network is
defined as a LAN.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic,
Broadcast Domain Isolation can be applied as follows:

- **Network Segmentation:** Implement network segmentation to isolate
  different parts of your network. This can prevent a potential
  attacker from moving laterally across your network if they manage to
  compromise a single host.

- **Firewall Rules:** Set up firewall rules to restrict the broadcast
  traffic on your network. This can prevent potential attackers from
  using broadcast traffic to discover other hosts on your network.

- **Virtual LANs (VLANs):** Use VLANs to logically separate different
  parts of your network into separate broadcast domains. This can
  provide an additional layer of isolation and security for your
  Datomic servers.

### :d3fend/M1031 - Network Intrusion Prevention

Network Intrusion Prevention is a mitigation technique in the D3FEND framework. This technique is associated with several defensive techniques:

- :d3fend/NetworkTrafficAnalysis: This technique involves analyzing
  intercepted or summarized computer network traffic to detect
  unauthorized activity.

- :d3fend/InboundTrafficFiltering: This technique restricts network
  traffic originating from untrusted networks destined towards a
  private host or enclave.

- :d3fend/OutboundTrafficFiltering: This technique restricts network
  traffic originating from a private host or enclave destined towards
  untrusted networks.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic,
these techniques can be applied as follows:

- **:d3fend/NetworkTrafficAnalysis:** Regularly analyze the network
  traffic to your Datomic servers. This could involve using network
  monitoring tools to detect any unusual patterns or potential
  threats. If you notice a sudden increase in traffic or a pattern
  that matches known attack signatures, it could be an indication of a
  potential attack.

- **:d3fend/InboundTrafficFiltering:** Configure network firewalls to
  restrict inbound traffic to only trusted sources. This can be done
  by setting up firewall rules that only allow traffic from known IP
  addresses or ranges. This can prevent potential attackers from
  sending malicious traffic to your Datomic servers.

- **:d3fend/OutboundTrafficFiltering:** Similarly, restrict outbound
  traffic from your Datomic servers to trusted networks only. This can
  prevent data exfiltration in case an attacker manages to compromise
  your servers.

Remember, the goal of network intrusion prevention is not only to
detect attacks but also to stop them from succeeding. This involves
not only monitoring and analyzing network traffic but also taking
proactive measures to restrict traffic and isolate your servers from
potential threats.

### :d3fend/M1032 - Multi-factor Authentication

Multi-factor Authentication is a mitigation technique in the D3FEND framework. This technique requires proof of two or more pieces of evidence in order to authenticate a user. It is associated with :d3fend/UserAccount, which represents a digital identity represented by a set of attributes associated with a user of a given system.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic, Multi-factor Authentication can be applied as follows:

- **User Authentication:** Implement multi-factor authentication for
  all users accessing your Datomic database. This could involve
  requiring users to provide something they know (like a password),
  something they have (like a hardware token or a code sent to their
  mobile device), and something they are (like a fingerprint or other
  biometric data).

- **System Administration:** Require multi-factor authentication for
  all administrative actions on your Datomic servers. This can help to
  prevent unauthorized administrative access, which could lead to
  serious security breaches.

- **Monitoring and Auditing:** Use Datomic's auditing capabilities to
  keep track of all authentication attempts. This can help you to
  identify any unusual patterns, such as a high number of failed
  authentication attempts, which could indicate a potential attack.

Remember, the goal of multi-factor authentication is to make it more
difficult for an attacker to gain unauthorized access to your
system. Even if an attacker manages to obtain one factor (like a
user's password), they will still need to obtain the other factors in
order to gain access. This can significantly increase the security of
your system.

### :d3fend/M1033 - Limit Software Installation

Limit Software Installation is a mitigation technique in the D3FEND
framework. This technique involves limiting the ability of users to
install software on a system. It is associated with two defensive
techniques:

- :d3fend/ExecutableDenylisting: This technique involves blocking the
  execution of files on a host in accordance with defined application
  policy rules.

- :d3fend/ExecutableAllowlisting: This technique involves using a
  digital signature to authenticate a file before opening.

Additionally, the metaobject :d3fend/M1033 is semantically linked to
:d3fend/Software, which represents a part of a computer system that
consists of encoded information or computer instructions. This is
further associated with :d3fend/ExecutableFile, which represents a
file that causes a computer to perform indicated tasks according to
encoded instructions. :d3fend/ExecutableFile contains
:d3fend/Subroutine, which in different programming languages, may be
called a procedure, a function, a routine, a method, or a subprogram.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic,
these techniques can be applied as follows:

- **:d3fend/ExecutableDenylisting:** Implement a denylist of
  executables on your Datomic servers. This could involve setting up
  rules that prevent the execution of certain files, such as those
  known to be associated with malicious activity. This can help to
  prevent an attacker from running malicious code on your servers.

- **:d3fend/ExecutableAllowlisting:** Conversely, you could implement
  an allowlist of executables. This would involve only allowing the
  execution of files that have been authenticated with a digital
  signature. This can help to ensure that only trusted code is run on
  your servers.

- **Software Installation Limitation:** Limit the ability of users to
  install software on the system where Datomic is running. This could
  involve setting up user permissions to restrict software
  installation to administrators only. This can prevent unauthorized
  software installation, which could potentially introduce
  vulnerabilities into the system.

Remember, the goal of limiting software installation is to reduce the
attack surface of your system. By strictly controlling what software
can be installed and run on your servers, you can make it more
difficult for an attacker to compromise your system.

### :d3fend/M1034 - Limit Hardware Installation

Limit Hardware Installation is a mitigation technique in the D3FEND framework. This technique involves limiting the ability of users to install hardware on a system. It is associated with the defensive technique :d3fend/IOPortRestriction, which involves limiting access to computer input/output (IO) ports to restrict unauthorized devices.

Additionally, the metaobject :d3fend/M1034 is semantically linked to :d3fend/Software, which represents a part of a computer system that consists of encoded information or computer instructions. This is further associated with :d3fend/ExecutableFile, which represents a file that causes a computer to perform indicated tasks according to encoded instructions. :d3fend/ExecutableFile contains :d3fend/Subroutine, which in different programming languages, may be called a procedure, a function, a routine, a method, or a subprogram.

The mitigation technique is also associated with :d3fend/RemovableMediaDevice and :d3fend/InputDevice. A removable media device is a hardware device used for computer storage and that is designed to be inserted and removed from the system. An input device is a piece of equipment used to provide data and control signals to an information processing system such as a computer or information appliance.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic, these techniques can be applied as follows:

- **:d3fend/IOPortRestriction:** Implement IO port restrictions on
  your Datomic servers. This could involve setting up rules that
  prevent unauthorized devices from connecting to your servers' IO
  ports. This can help to prevent an attacker from connecting a
  malicious device to your servers.

- **Hardware Installation Limitation:** Limit the ability of users to
  install hardware on the system where Datomic is running. This could
  involve setting up user permissions to restrict hardware
  installation to administrators only. This can prevent unauthorized
  hardware installation, which could potentially introduce
  vulnerabilities into the system.

Remember, the goal of limiting hardware installation is to reduce the
attack surface of your system. By strictly controlling what hardware
can be installed and connected to your servers, you can make it more
difficult for an attacker to compromise your system.

### Limit Access to Resource Over Network

Limit Access to Resource Over Network is a mitigation technique in the
D3FEND framework. This technique involves limiting the ability of
users to access resources over a network. It is associated with the
defensive technique :d3fend/NetworkIsolation, which involves
preventing network hosts from accessing non-essential system network
resources.

The metaobject :d3fend/M1035 is semantically linked to
:d3fend/NetworkIsolation, which is a defensive technique that prevents
network hosts from accessing non-essential system network
resources. This technique is part of the :d3fend/Isolate defensive
tactic, which creates logical or physical barriers in a system to
reduce opportunities for adversaries to create further accesses.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic,
these techniques can be applied as follows:

- **:d3fend/NetworkIsolation:** Implement network isolation on your
  Datomic servers. This could involve setting up network rules that
  prevent unauthorized network hosts from accessing your servers. This
  can help to prevent an attacker from accessing your servers over the
  network.

- **Limit Access to Resource Over Network:** Limit the ability of
  users to access resources over the network. This could involve
  setting up user permissions to restrict access to certain
  resources. This can prevent unauthorized access to your Datomic
  database and other sensitive resources.

Remember, the goal of limiting access to resources over the network is
to reduce the attack surface of your system. By strictly controlling
what resources can be accessed over the network, you can make it more
difficult for an attacker to compromise your system.

### :d3fend/M1036 - Account Use Policies

Account Use Policies is a mitigation technique in the D3FEND framework. This technique involves the establishment of policies that govern how accounts are used within a system. It is associated with three defensive techniques:

- **:d3fend/AccountLocking:** This technique involves temporarily disabling user accounts on a system or domain. It's a part of the :d3fend/CredentialEviction class, which is a subclass of :d3fend/Technique and :d3fend/DefensiveTechnique. It is associated with :d3fend/UserAccount and counters the same.

- **:d3fend/AuthenticationCacheInvalidation:** This technique involves removing tokens or credentials from an authentication cache to prevent further user associated account accesses. It's a part of the :d3fend/CredentialEviction class, which is a subclass of :d3fend/Technique and :d3fend/DefensiveTechnique. It is associated with :d3fend/Authentication and counters the same.

- **:d3fend/AuthenticationEventThresholding:** This technique involves collecting authentication events, creating a baseline user profile, and determining whether authentication events are consistent with the baseline profile. It's a part of the :d3fend/UserBehaviorAnalysis class, which is a subclass of :d3fend/Technique and :d3fend/DefensiveTechnique. It is associated with :d3fend/Authentication and detects the same.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic, these techniques can be applied as follows:

- **:d3fend/AccountLocking:** Implement account locking policies on your Datomic servers. This could involve setting up rules that temporarily disable user accounts after a certain number of failed login attempts. This can help to prevent an attacker from gaining access to your servers through brute force attacks.

- **:d3fend/AuthenticationCacheInvalidation:** Implement authentication cache invalidation on your Datomic servers. This could involve setting up rules that automatically remove tokens or credentials from the authentication cache after a certain period of time or under certain conditions. This can help to prevent an attacker from gaining access to your servers using stolen or leaked credentials.

- **:d3fend/AuthenticationEventThresholding:** Implement authentication event thresholding on your Datomic servers. This could involve setting up systems that collect authentication events, create a baseline user profile, and alert administrators when authentication events deviate from the baseline profile. This can help to detect and respond to suspicious activity on your servers.

### :d3fend/M1037 - Filter Network Traffic

Filter Network Traffic is a mitigation technique in the D3FEND framework. This technique involves filtering network traffic to prevent network hosts from accessing non-essential system network resources. It is associated with the defensive technique :d3fend/NetworkIsolation, which is part of the :d3fend/Isolate defensive tactic.

- **:d3fend/NetworkIsolation:** This technique prevents network hosts from accessing non-essential system network resources. It's a part of the :d3fend/Isolate defensive tactic, which creates logical or physical barriers in a system to reduce opportunities for adversaries to create further accesses.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic, these techniques can be applied as follows:

- **:d3fend/NetworkIsolation:** Implement network isolation on your Datomic servers. This could involve setting up network rules that prevent unauthorized network hosts from accessing your servers. This can help to prevent an attacker from accessing your servers over the network.

- **Filter Network Traffic:** Implement network traffic filtering on
  your Datomic servers. This could involve setting up firewall rules
  that filter out unwanted traffic, based on factors such as IP
  address, port number, protocol, or other characteristics. This can
  help to prevent an attacker from sending malicious traffic to your
  servers or receiving sensitive data from your servers.

## :d3fend/M1038 - Executable Allowlisting

Executable Allowlisting is a mitigation technique in the D3FEND framework. This technique involves allowing only specific executables to run on a system. It is associated with several defensive techniques:

- **:d3fend/ExecutableAllowlisting:** This technique involves using a digital signature to authenticate a file before opening. It is associated with the digital artifacts :d3fend/ExecutableFile and :d3fend/CreateProcess. It counters and blocks the execution of the :d3fend/ExecutableFile. It also restricts the :d3fend/CreateProcess.

- **:d3fend/DriverLoadIntegrityChecking:** This technique involves ensuring the integrity of drivers loaded during the initialization of the operating system. It is associated with the digital artifact :d3fend/HardwareDriver. It counters and authenticates the :d3fend/HardwareDriver.

- **:d3fend/ProcessSegmentExecutionPrevention:** This technique involves preventing execution of any address in a memory region other than the code segment. It is associated with the digital artifact :d3fend/ProcessSegment. It counters and neutralizes the :d3fend/ProcessSegment.

- **:d3fend/ExecutableDenylisting:** This technique involves blocking the execution of files on a host in accordance with defined application policy rules. It is associated with the digital artifacts :d3fend/ExecutableFile and :d3fend/CreateProcess. It counters and blocks the execution of the :d3fend/ExecutableFile. It also restricts the :d3fend/CreateProcess.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic, these techniques can be applied as follows:

- **:d3fend/ExecutableAllowlisting:** Ensure that only authenticated executables are allowed to run in the environment where Datomic is running. This could involve using digital signatures to authenticate executables before they are allowed to run.

- **:d3fend/DriverLoadIntegrityChecking:** If Datomic is running on a system where drivers are used, ensure that the integrity of these drivers is checked when they are loaded. This could involve using a secure operating system that performs these checks.

- **:d3fend/ProcessSegmentExecutionPrevention:** Ensure that the Datomic processes are running in a secure environment where the execution of unauthorized code segments is prevented. This could involve running Datomic in a hardened container or virtual machine.

- **:d3fend/ExecutableDenylisting:** Implement a policy that blocks the execution of certain files in the environment where Datomic is running. This could involve setting up a denylist of files that are not allowed to be executed.

## :d3fend/M1039 - Environment Variable Permissions

Environment Variable Permissions is a mitigation technique in the D3FEND framework. This technique involves setting permissions on environment variables to prevent unauthorized modification. It is associated with two defensive techniques:

- **:d3fend/SystemFileAnalysis:** This technique involves monitoring system files such as authentication databases, configuration files, system logs, and system executables for modification or tampering. It is associated with the digital artifact :d3fend/OperatingSystemFile.

- **:d3fend/ApplicationConfigurationHardening:** This technique involves modifying an application's configuration to reduce its attack surface. It is associated with the digital artifact :d3fend/ApplicationConfiguration.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic, these techniques can be applied as follows:

- **:d3fend/SystemFileAnalysis:** Implement system file analysis on your Datomic servers. This could involve setting up monitoring tools that alert you to any changes in important system files. This can help to detect and respond to unauthorized modifications.

- **:d3fend/ApplicationConfigurationHardening:** Harden the configuration of your Datomic application. This could involve setting strict permissions on configuration files, limiting the use of potentially dangerous features, and regularly reviewing and updating the configuration to ensure it remains secure.

## :d3fend/M1040 - Behavior Prevention on Endpoint

The metaobject :d3fend/M1040 represents a mitigation technique in the D3FEND framework, specifically "Behavior Prevention on Endpoint". This mitigation technique is associated with several defensive techniques:

- **:d3fend/JobFunctionAccessPatternAnalysis:** This technique involves detecting anomalies in user access patterns by comparing user access activity to behavioral profiles that categorize users by role such as job title, function, department. It is associated with the digital artifact :d3fend/Authorization, which represents the function of specifying access rights to resources related to information security and computer security in general and to access control in particular.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic, these techniques can be applied as follows:

- **:d3fend/JobFunctionAccessPatternAnalysis:** Implement a system that monitors user access patterns in the Datomic database. This could involve creating behavioral profiles for each user based on their role and then using these profiles to detect any anomalous access patterns. For example, if a user suddenly starts accessing data that is not typically required for their role, this could be flagged as a potential security threat. This technique is particularly useful in a linked data platform where access to different types of data may be required by different roles.

The technique is associated with the :d3fend/Authorization class,
indicating that it involves specifying access rights to
resources. This could involve setting up access control rules in
Datomic to specify which users are authorized to access which
resources. The technique counters threats associated with
:d3fend/NetworkResourceAccess, such as unauthorized access to network
resources.

## :d3fend/M1041 - Encrypt Sensitive Information

The metaobject :d3fend/M1041 represents a mitigation technique in the D3FEND framework, specifically "Encrypt Sensitive Information". This mitigation technique is associated with several defensive techniques:

- **:d3fend/DiskEncryption:** This technique involves encrypting a hard disk partition to prevent cleartext access to a file system. It is associated with the digital artifact :d3fend/Storage, which represents the function of storing data for use by a computer or digital system.

- **:d3fend/MessageEncryption:** This technique involves encrypting a message body using a cryptographic key. It is associated with the digital artifact :d3fend/UserToUserMessage, which represents the function of transmitting information from one user to another.

- **:d3fend/FileEncryption:** This technique involves encrypting a file using a cryptographic key. It is associated with the digital artifact :d3fend/File, which represents a collection of data that a computer can read and write.

- **:d3fend/EncryptedTunnels:** This technique involves encrypted encapsulation of routable network traffic. It is associated with the digital artifact :d3fend/IntranetNetwork, which represents a private network that is contained within an enterprise.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic, these techniques can be applied as follows:

- **:d3fend/DiskEncryption:** Ensure that the storage devices used by the Datomic database are encrypted. This can prevent an attacker from accessing the data if they gain physical access to the storage device.

- **:d3fend/MessageEncryption:** If Datomic is used to store messages that are sent between users, ensure that these messages are encrypted. This can prevent an attacker from reading the messages if they are intercepted during transmission.

- **:d3fend/FileEncryption:** If Datomic is used to store files, ensure that these files are encrypted. This can prevent an attacker from reading the files if they gain access to the storage device.

- **:d3fend/EncryptedTunnels:** If Datomic is used in a networked environment, ensure that the network traffic is encrypted. This can prevent an attacker from intercepting the network traffic and gaining access to the data.

## :d3fend/M1042 - Disable or Remove Feature or Program

The metaobject :d3fend/M1042 represents a mitigation technique in the D3FEND framework, specifically "Disable or Remove Feature or Program". This mitigation technique is associated with several defensive techniques:

- **:d3fend/ApplicationConfigurationHardening:** This technique involves modifying an application's configuration to reduce its attack surface. It is associated with the digital artifact :d3fend/ApplicationConfiguration, which represents the function of configuring an application.

- **:d3fend/MandatoryAccessControl:** This technique involves controlling access to local computer system resources with kernel-level capabilities. It is associated with the digital artifact :d3fend/Process, which represents the function of a process in a computer system, and :d3fend/CreateProcess, which represents the function of creating a process.

- **:d3fend/ExecutableDenylisting:** This technique involves blocking the execution of files on a host in accordance with defined application policy rules. It is associated with the digital artifact :d3fend/ExecutableFile, which represents a file that can be directly executed by a computer system, and :d3fend/CreateProcess, which represents the function of creating a process.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic, these techniques can be applied as follows:

- **:d3fend/ApplicationConfigurationHardening:** Ensure that the Datomic application's configuration is hardened to reduce its attack surface. This could involve disabling unnecessary features or services, limiting the permissions of the application, or configuring the application to use secure settings.

- **:d3fend/MandatoryAccessControl:** Implement mandatory access control mechanisms in the operating system hosting the Datomic database. This could involve using a secure operating system that supports mandatory access control, or configuring the operating system to restrict the permissions of the Datomic processes.

- **:d3fend/ExecutableDenylisting:** Implement executable denylisting mechanisms to prevent the execution of unauthorized files on the host running the Datomic database. This could involve using security software that supports executable denylisting, or configuring the operating system to block the execution of unauthorized files.

## :d3fend/M1043 - Credential Access Protection

The metaobject :d3fend/M1043 represents a mitigation technique in the D3FEND framework, specifically "Credential Access Protection". This mitigation technique is associated with the defensive technique:

- **:d3fend/Hardware-basedProcessIsolation:** This technique involves preventing one process from writing to the memory space of another process through hardware-based address manager implementations. It is associated with the digital artifacts :d3fend/Process and :d3fend/CreateProcess, which represent the function of a process in a computer system and the function of creating a process, respectively.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic, this technique can be applied as follows:

- **:d3fend/Hardware-basedProcessIsolation:** Implement hardware-based process isolation mechanisms in the operating system hosting the Datomic database. This could involve using a secure operating system that supports hardware-based process isolation, or configuring the operating system to restrict the permissions of the Datomic processes. This can prevent one process from writing to the memory space of another process, which can be particularly useful in preventing credential theft attacks where an attacker tries to access the memory space of a process to steal credentials.

## :d3fend/M1044 - Restrict Library Loading

The metaobject :d3fend/M1044 represents a mitigation technique in the D3FEND framework, specifically "Restrict Library Loading". This mitigation technique is associated with the defensive technique:

- **:d3fend/SystemCallFiltering:** This technique involves configuring a kernel to use an allow or deny list to filter kernel API calls. It is associated with the digital artifact :d3fend/SystemCall, which represents the function of a system call in a computer system.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic, this technique can be applied as follows:

- **:d3fend/SystemCallFiltering:** Implement system call filtering mechanisms in the operating system hosting the Datomic database. This could involve using a secure operating system that supports system call filtering, or configuring the operating system to restrict the system calls that can be made by the Datomic processes. This can prevent an attacker from loading malicious libraries into the Datomic processes by blocking the system calls used to load libraries.

The technique is associated with the :d3fend/SystemCall class, indicating that it involves controlling system calls. This could involve setting up system call filtering rules in the operating system to specify which system calls are allowed and which are blocked. The technique counters threats associated with :d3fend/SystemCall, such as attacks that exploit system calls to compromise the system.

## :d3fend/M1045 - Code Signing

The metaobject :d3fend/M1045 represents a mitigation technique in the D3FEND framework, specifically "Code Signing". This mitigation technique is associated with several defensive techniques:

- **:d3fend/DriverLoadIntegrityChecking:** This technique involves ensuring the integrity of drivers loaded during the initialization of the operating system. It is associated with the digital artifact :d3fend/HardwareDriver, which represents a hardware driver in a computer system.

- **:d3fend/ServiceBinaryVerification:** This technique involves analyzing changes in service binary files by comparing them to a source of truth. It is associated with the digital artifact :d3fend/ServiceApplication, which represents a service application in a computer system.

- **:d3fend/ExecutableAllowlisting:** This technique involves using a digital signature to authenticate a file before opening it. It is associated with the digital artifact :d3fend/ExecutableFile, which represents an executable file in a computer system, and :d3fend/CreateProcess, which represents the creation of a process in a computer system.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic, these techniques can be applied as follows:

- **:d3fend/DriverLoadIntegrityChecking:** Ensure that the integrity of drivers loaded during the initialization of the operating system hosting the Datomic database is verified. This could involve using a secure operating system that supports driver load integrity checking, or configuring the operating system to verify the integrity of drivers when they are loaded.

- **:d3fend/ServiceBinaryVerification:** Regularly verify the integrity of the binary files of the services used by the Datomic database. This could involve using a tool that can compare the current state of these files to a known good state, and alert you if any changes are detected.

- **:d3fend/ExecutableAllowlisting:** Implement an allowlist of executable files that are allowed to run on the system hosting the Datomic database. This could involve configuring the operating system or a security tool to block the execution of any executable file that is not on the allowlist. This can prevent an attacker from running malicious executable files on the system.

## :d3fend/M1046 - Boot Integrity

The metaobject :d3fend/M1046 represents a mitigation technique in the D3FEND framework, specifically "Boot Integrity". This mitigation technique is associated with several defensive techniques:

- **:d3fend/BootloaderAuthentication:** This technique involves cryptographically authenticating the bootloader software before system boot. It is associated with the digital artifact :d3fend/BootLoader, which represents a bootloader in a computer system.

- **:d3fend/TPMBootIntegrity:** This technique involves assuring the integrity of a platform by demonstrating that the boot process starts from a trusted combination of hardware and software and continues until the operating system has fully booted and applications are running. Sometimes called Static Root of Trust Measurement (STRM).

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic, these techniques can be applied as follows:

- **:d3fend/BootloaderAuthentication:** Implement bootloader authentication mechanisms in the operating system hosting the Datomic database. This could involve using a secure operating system that supports bootloader authentication, or configuring the operating system to authenticate the bootloader before system boot. This can prevent an attacker from modifying the bootloader to launch attacks at boot time.

- **:d3fend/TPMBootIntegrity:** Implement TPM boot integrity mechanisms in the operating system hosting the Datomic database. This could involve using a secure operating system that supports TPM boot integrity, or configuring the operating system to demonstrate that the boot process starts from a trusted combination of hardware and software and continues until the operating system has fully booted and applications are running. This can prevent an attacker from modifying the boot process to launch attacks at boot time.

## :d3fend/M1047 - Audit

The metaobject :d3fend/M1047 represents a mitigation technique in the D3FEND framework, specifically "Audit". This mitigation technique is associated with several defensive techniques:

- :d3fend/SystemFileAnalysis
- :d3fend/LocalAccountMonitoring
- :d3fend/DomainAccountMonitoring

### :d3fend/SystemFileAnalysis

System File Analysis (:d3fend/SystemFileAnalysis) is a defensive technique that involves monitoring system files such as authentication databases, configuration files, system logs, and system executables for modification or tampering. It is associated with the digital artifact :d3fend/OperatingSystemFile, which represents an operating system file that is part of, or used to store information about, the operating system itself.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic, System File Analysis can be applied by monitoring the files related to the Datomic system for any unexpected changes. This could involve setting up file integrity monitoring tools to alert you if any of the Datomic system files are modified.

### :d3fend/LocalAccountMonitoring

Local Account Monitoring (:d3fend/LocalAccountMonitoring) is a defensive technique that involves analyzing local user accounts to detect unauthorized activity. It is associated with the digital artifact :d3fend/LocalUserAccount, which represents a user account on a given host.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic, Local Account Monitoring can be applied by monitoring the local user accounts that have access to the Datomic system. This could involve setting up user behavior analytics tools to detect any unusual activity associated with these accounts.

### :d3fend/DomainAccountMonitoring

Domain Account Monitoring (:d3fend/DomainAccountMonitoring) is a defensive technique that involves monitoring the existence of or changes to Domain User Accounts. It is associated with the digital artifact :d3fend/DomainUserAccount, which represents a domain user account in Microsoft Windows that defines a user's access to a logical group of network objects.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic, Domain Account Monitoring can be applied if the Datomic system is part of a Windows domain. This could involve setting up account monitoring tools to detect any changes to the domain user accounts that have access to the Datomic system.

## :d3fend/M1048 - Hardware-based Process Isolation

The metaobject :d3fend/M1048 represents a mitigation technique in the D3FEND framework, specifically "Hardware-based Process Isolation". This mitigation technique is associated with several defensive techniques:

- :d3fend/Hardware-basedProcessIsolation: This technique involves isolating processes at the hardware level. This can be useful in preventing a compromised process from affecting other processes running on the same system.

- :d3fend/MandatoryAccessControl: This technique involves enforcing mandatory access controls on system resources. This can prevent an attacker from accessing sensitive resources if they manage to compromise a process.

- :d3fend/SystemCallFiltering: This technique involves filtering system calls to prevent a process from performing certain actions. This can be useful in limiting the damage that a compromised process can do.

- :d3fend/DynamicAnalysis: This technique involves executing or opening a file in a synthetic "sandbox" environment to determine if the file is a malicious program or if the file exploits another program such as a document reader.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic, these techniques can be applied as follows:

- :d3fend/Hardware-basedProcessIsolation: Ensure that the Datomic processes are running on a system that supports hardware-based process isolation. This could involve running Datomic on a system with hardware features that support process isolation, such as Intel's VT-x or AMD's AMD-V.

- :d3fend/MandatoryAccessControl: Enforce mandatory access controls on the Datomic database and any other sensitive resources. This could involve configuring Datomic's access controls to strictly limit who can access the data and what they can do with it.

- :d3fend/SystemCallFiltering: If Datomic is running on a system where system call filtering is supported, configure the system to filter system calls made by the Datomic processes. This could involve using a security feature like seccomp on Linux to limit the system calls that the Datomic processes can make.

- :d3fend/DynamicAnalysis: Regularly analyze the files that Datomic interacts with in a sandbox environment to detect potential malicious activity. This could involve using a dynamic analysis tool to analyze files before they are opened by Datomic.

## :d3fend/M1049 - Antivirus/Antimalware

The metaobject :d3fend/M1049 represents a mitigation technique in the D3FEND framework, specifically "Antivirus/Antimalware". This mitigation technique is associated with several defensive techniques:

- :d3fend/FileHashing
- :d3fend/FileContentRules
- :d3fend/ProcessAnalysis

### :d3fend/FileHashing

File Hashing (:d3fend/FileHashing) is a defensive technique that involves employing file hash comparisons to detect known malware. It is associated with the digital artifact :d3fend/File, which represents a file in a file system.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic, File Hashing can be applied by maintaining a database of known malicious file hashes and regularly comparing the hashes of the files in the Datomic system against this database. This could involve setting up a file integrity monitoring tool that supports hash checking.

### :d3fend/FileContentRules

File Content Rules (:d3fend/FileContentRules) is a defensive technique that involves employing a pattern matching rule language to analyze files. It is associated with the digital artifact :d3fend/File, which represents a file in a file system.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic, File Content Rules can be applied by setting up a system that analyzes the content of the files in the Datomic system using a set of predefined rules. This could involve using a tool that supports file content analysis, such as a security-focused intrusion detection system.

### :d3fend/ProcessAnalysis

Process Analysis (:d3fend/ProcessAnalysis) is a defensive technique that consists of observing a running application process and analyzing it to watch for certain behaviors or conditions which may indicate adversary activity. Analysis can occur inside of the process or through a third-party monitoring application. Examples include monitoring system and privileged calls, monitoring process initiation chains, and memory boundary allocations.

In the context of defending a linked data platform using Datomic, Process Analysis can be applied by monitoring the Datomic processes for any unusual behavior. This could involve setting up a process monitoring tool that alerts you if the Datomic processes perform any suspicious actions.
